Add doc for 2D & 3D navigationmesh generation (#6048)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/navigation/navigation_using_navigationmeshes.rst

.. _doc_navigation_using_navigationmeshes:

Using NavigationMeshes
======================

.. warning::

>     This chapter is a stub for linking and unfinished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This chapter is a stub for linking and unfinished.
```

Thats a bit of a weird note IMO, what exactly is missing? Lots of docs pages could use fleshing out, and a lot of stuff is missing or outdated. IME, we don't leave similar notes everywhere. Open to hear opinions about this however, just not sure how useful it is.

Author: removed it

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: img/baked_navmesh.png

Navigation meshes in the 3D editor are created with the help of the 
:ref:`NavigationMeshGenerator<class_NavigationMeshGenerator>` singleton 
and the NavigationMesh bake settings that appear in the editor inspector.

NavigationMesh baking is the process of creating a simplified mesh used for pathfinding out of (complex) 3D level geometry.
For this process Godot parses scene geometry and hands the raw mesh or collision data to the 
third-party ReCast library for processing and creation of the final navigationmesh.

The resulting NavigationMesh is an approximation of the source geometry surfaces 
for both performance and technical reasons. Do not expect the NavigationMesh 
to perfectly follow the original surfaces. Especially navigation polygons placed 
over ramps will not keep an equal distance to the ground surface. To align an 
actor perfectly with the ground use other means like physics.

.. warning::

    Meshes need to be triangulated to work as navigation meshes. Other mesh face formats like quad or ngon are not supported.

NavigationMesh geometry parsing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> NavigationMesh resources have the following properties and parameters to control the geometry parsing behavior:

Author: removed the section as it already exists in the class doc

        
        # or use NavigationServer API to update region with prepared navmesh
        var region_rid : RID = get_region_rid()
        NavigationServer3D.region_set_navmesh(region_rid, navmesh)

.. note::

    Baking a NavigationMesh at runtime is a costly operation.
    Complex navmesh take some time to bake and if done on the main thread can freeze a game.
    (Re)baking a large navmesh is preferably done in a separate thread.

.. warning::

    Property values on a NavigationMesh resource like ``cell_size`` need 
    to match the actual mesh data stored inside in order to merge 
    different navigation meshes without issues.

NavigationRegion2D and Navigation3D both use meshes to mark traversable areas, only the tools to create them are different.

For 2D NavigationPolygon resources are used to draw outline points in the editor. From these outline points the NavigationServer2D creates a mesh to upload navigation data to the NavigationServer.

For 3D NavigationMesh resources are used. Instead of providing draw tools the 3D variant 
provides an extensive amount of parameters to bake a navigation mesh directly from 3D source geometry.

.. note::

>     Technically there is no hard restriction between 2D and 3D how to use the given toolsets to create flat navigation meshes. The 2D drawing tool can be used to create a flat 3D navmesh and the 3D baking tool can be used to parse flat 3D geometry into 2D appropriated navigationmeshes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Technically there is no hard distinction between 2D and 3D on how to use the given toolsets to create flat navigation meshes. The 2D drawing tool can be used to create a flat 3D navmesh and the 3D baking tool can be used to parse flat 3D geometry into 2D appropriated navigationmeshes.
```
